Justice

In this essay, I want to talk about justice because it is really important for human to understand what justice is and what it is. Not. It makes a very major
part of our human experience. So it is very important for us to understand justice and I intend to at least on small level, try to explore the subject and try
to clear out what it is, and what is not.

The first thing that everybody should understand is that justice is not law. Justice is not some rules or some rules written in a book. It's not a constitution of a 
country. It's something much much more than that. Justice is something beyond us. Justice is very hard to define and judge because we often have the wrong, concept of it .

Justice is what we call as an ideal because Justice is not and just an human idea. When we talk about justice. We try to act like gods because justice is beyond and 
human justice is something much more than human. That's the way we have envisioned it justice is something much more, because it's an ideal thing with ideals is that 
these are the things that we have in our vision or things that we aspire to, and hence we put these ideas on a pedestal, right nobody can be hundred percentage
just so justice is something that is that we place a power and justice is not something that one can grass in entirety as a single to individual because it is not 
supposed to be graft by single individual because it's something that we see as beyond human. It's we have place it in a higher place, it's something heavenly or 
divine, justice is complex. Justice is an ideal is on a higher pedestal above us, and hence to think of the Foley that we understand, it is the biggest mistake that 
we can do when trying to understand justice.

Justice is very much in tangled with what we consider as truth and when I speak about, truth is not about truth that we speak in every day. I am speaking the truth as 
an another ideal that we have created. Hence because truth is also an ideal, it is also on a higher pest, and it's above us. Nobody can be hundred percent true, so truth
is also a higher pedestal and because justice is so much entangled with truth, it become much more harder to serve out the what you call as true justice

And because of the reason that I talked about justice is beyond us, justice is something higher than any of us. If we consider ourselves as justice or we are the absolute 
sense of justice then what we consider as justice loses out all of its value because it becomes a human value rather than idea, and when it's something becomes an human 
value, it i very very susceptible to be influenced by human values or human interference and it is in these cases and people take to understand or think that they understand 
justice is that's when a lot of things go wrong because justice is much more beyond. The justice is higher than any of us. Justice is beyond humans.

When we think of justice, we think about the courts, the judges, the great people who absolutely are knowledgeable in the matters of justice and they are absolute final 
word of justice like that they we treat them as there are some sort of representative of justice. The one thing that you misunderstand is justice is not a person justice 
is not that is not a person cannot be a person and what we consider people who serve our justice. For example, court judges or someone else these are people who deals out 
justice based on their personal ideas and hope that it might be correct, and that's the only thing and most of the time almost 99 percentage of the time, the justice that 
they deal out is based on some rule book or some constitution or some book or some set of rules or some set of laws that are written down somewhere, but because of the 
perview of justice is beyond any book or beyond any constitution, beyond any set of rules, it is much more bigger than that, and because of that, what, people who deal 
of justice can never deal out true justice because it's much more beyond that one way, we can see these people who deal out justice as we call them. It's like what we 
call is justice. We can think of it as as an analogy, that justice is the heavenly actor, it's an it's coming from one fountain in the heavens and the people whom we, 
call us judges. These people who are attracted or interested to that heavenly fountain and in their near human experience or human life, they try to take a sip from that 
heavenly fountain and because they only taking a seat because that's our limit, they can never know the truth about that heavenly found it, so it's not possible to render
justice from human perspective of one person, so we must understand that justice cannot be person is much more beyond of all of us.

And this thing because justice is such an unstable thing is something beyond us. True justice will never be served out. This is not because we humans are inherently evil
or it's a fault of us, but because of the fundamental flow that is in humans, this is I told earlier that justice is very much entangle with the truth and the funny thing 
over truth is, nobody can know what the perfect truth is because every time when we see something when we hear something, we perceive something only send something our
brains have a source of sense of filter, that when we hear something on any do something on any purse, something it goes to the filter of our brain and we create our
own versions of the truth in our brain. It's not because we have any malicious intent, but because we are humans and we have that brain filter that filters of the dirt
information into a way that our brain can understand and accept and sort of, interpreted and that is the reason why the perspective of truth between two people can be
widely different, even though they might be saying what they have perceived, but because of the filter that they have in their consciousness, the perspective about those
truths might be entirely different between two people and in this case, whom shall we believe because straight truth is so much mangle and so entangled how can we serve? 
Perfect justice right? So let's say somebody has done a crime and we don't know. We have never seen. How was the crime run over who had done it. We don't know who had done
it. We just know that somebody has done it. We don't know the absolute truth, right? So what we do as humans is to collect information to collect that thing that you say 
truth from multiple people and we try to cancel out that filter bias in each of the stories and we try to bring out truth but the basic fundamental law of the universe says 
that we cannot know anything, absolutely in this universe. This is not just some sort of spiritual or occult thing, but the law of the universe rule of the laws of physics.
It says we cannot know anything by our absolutely. This means that, however, stories that we collect about the truth, however, absolutely things that we have collected and 
we beat them together and make it as true. They will always be little blanks lying around their little holes that will never be filled because of the very nature of human 
existence because you will never be able to know what is happened and in those cases, would it be right? My question? Would it be right to serve out justice because a very
concept of people serving out justice or rendering justice, absolutely, complicated in the first place, but when we because it is also very entangle, which is also 
very entangle with truth, would it be true? Would it be right to render justice even on very small level without knowing the truth because it's small so much mango and 
entangled with justice, so if you don't know the hundred percent of the truth, how can we run the justice?

The thing that we also should consider is what might be considered justice is and will never be justice for another person. It would never be possible to perfect justice.
What is justice for one person somehow somewhere we consider us consider injustice for someone else.. 

Now that we have talked so much about what justice is and how it can be served and how it cannot be served. What it is. We have hand some sort of at sort of primitive
understanding of what justice is. Everybody will have their understanding of justice, and that is good, but one must always remember what the things I have told about.

Now let's come to more philosophical or more physical or the more practical aspects of justice. See justice is not something that has evolved in the recent years, justice
or the idea of justice as been there for thousands of years as long as the human existence as has been there as long as we haven't social and environment around us as 
long as we have been a social being there are there is some idea of justice in some form over all of the years of human existence. So this is not something new right 
and this is very specific reason why we have came to consider this justice as some sort of ideal and that specific reason is justice is not just about an ideal. It's 
not just about truth. It's something much beyond that and it is not some lofty. It's not some philosophical problem that exist, but it has a very very practical, in 
human life. And that practical need in human existence is that of communal or society wellbeing. In the last essay that I wrote, I spoke about the purpose of life for the
meaning of life and that all came down and remained at the very simplest of essence is that the particular purpose of life or the meaning of life is basically something 
that we think about for the fulfilment of our life or at least happiness, so just as the purpose of lives serves to provide some sort of meaning or some sort of aim or 
some sort of fulfilment for each individual in the planet, what we call us justice as much bigger version of that justice exists to ensure the well-being of the society 
and the human species as a who so that's why over all of these years in ancient times to now. That's why the justice is has been an universal idea because when there is 
the idea of the justice when that idea is implemented in some so even if it's primitive implementation, if if it is implemented, in some way, it has always lead , the
betterment of the society whenever justice is served. When whatever you think justice is being rendered in the society, some people are fulfilled. We feel like we are 
being honoured. We feel like we are being the right thing is being done. The concept of whether something is right or wrong, is a topic for another essay of mine, and 
because it is such a wide topic, it cannot be completed or completely understood and and explained in the same message as this, so we will discuss what is right and wrong
in another essay, but let's come back to why Justice exist so justice, sort of provides people to work in a communally or society harmony. what we consider as justice.
Its sole purpose is to create some sort of harmony in the human society and whenever called is justice served, it serves as deter for someone else committing something 
wrong. If there was no justice, if there was no this idea of justice, then people would be able to do anything as they want. They would be able to do any harm to any of us 
in. Anyway, they want the reason why these justice or moral ideas have arisen is because we want to create a peaceful and really harmonious society, right? Justice is 
the social deterrent, that prevents people from doing harmful things to the people around them. justice at least in its human implementation, tries to describe other 
people from doing harmful things by setting an example, so if somebody is feeling wronged and the so cold justice is not delivered to them. It creates a president 
for another people to treat people the same way the same wrong way and it creates an harmful or a negative or very very poisonous. Toxic society. Justice serves 
to enforce these higher ideals, we have many higher ideals in life.

Many higher ideals, like truth or love or honesty or peacefulness, or just all of these are really good ideas, but to enforce them on a , human level we use an 
ideal called justice. All of the good things that you see the ideal like equality, equality must be there equality as an ideal or human idea cannot exist on its
own. There must be something to enforce it and justice is the ideal that enforces all other ideals that exist in the world. 

Now, as we have discussed what justice and what justice is not and what purpose it serves out. There comes a very very important question question that must be
answered. If we need to even think about justice. My question is where do you draw the line? Let's say someone has stolen something from a shop. And now we know 
that this specific guy has stole something from the shop, we know who is the culprit. Now, what would be the ideal punishment for this person would be if you asked 
to deliver justice? Would community service be enough? Or would imprisionsment would be needed? Oh, would that person need to be hanged to death?. this is a very important
question when you consider justice, use justice is not about punishment or about revenge or making things right. Justice is to serve a deterrant. So where do you draw the 
line that? What is the appropriate punishment that is needed to be given to that person to serve justice and this is where a fundamental flow to the human idea of 
justice comes to light because we see justice something that is served on spot something that happens spontaneously something that is trying to make some wrong right,
this is the major problem. In some countries, this crime would lead to maybe community service. In some other extreme countries, the same crime would lead to death that
person cannot say that he is innocent because he has stolen something and he has done something so he has done something wrong, so she cannot defend himself in anyway,
because he's already convicted, but then the question comes, how hard should the punishment be? And the truth is because of the very nature of the idea of justice is
never be possible to serve justice if we think of it in this way.

What I have come to understand is justice is not spontaneous on the spot thing. It is something that transcend human existence. When rendering out justice, the very aim 
or the very goal of justice is to fulfil the expectations of the society. It is some sort of way that we enforce the longevity of human species. If there was no law or
there, no justice people would do anything they want, and that would quickly lead to the fall of human civilisation. Hence, we enforce this ideal of justice, to maintain
humanity and ensuring the continuity of human species. Now that we have cleared why justice exist then we will need to view justice from an another perspective because as 
our end goal is to ensure the continuous human species, then rear, considering a very long time span and a very long list of consequences. For example, this is an example
that all of you must keep in your mind. This is an example, that I love very much when it comes to the idea of justice or truthfulness or the rightful punishment.
Let's just consider the example of now famous Oscar winning Robert Downey Junior. This boy was an drug addict. His father was a very influential famous Hollywood person 
so he had money. He did not have the care of life and he became a drug addict, his own journey, so this boy was convicted. Robert Downey Junior was convicted and sent 
to prison, he had to go through years of therapy and everything to return to normal life. now here is the interesting question if he was an please with more harder, 
laws or more harder, sense of justice, Robert Downey Junior would have been instantly killed after the trial because of the crime that he had connected he had drugs.
He was drug addict, right, but this system of justice gave him an opportunity, a second chance to prove himself, and now we can see the amazing amazing results that 
has lead to because someone decided to delay the justice or someone decided to take chances with a person now Robert Downey Junior is one of the highest paid actors 
in the world. He is an inspiration to millions of people around the world is one of the richest actors in the world, and now the question bags would all of this have 
been possible if that drug addict was not offer a chance. And this is the eternal dilemma of justice. We humans like to think of the present and present only, but when
it comes to justice because it's higher ideal justice is not only dealing with the present, but it is also very much and tangled with the past and the future, after all 
the justice, the idea of justice serves to create an harmonious society and ensure the longevity of human species. There are sometimes when we have to consider the
background of the person and the future potential of the person. Also, when considering justice, this is not one isolated example, there are hundreds of different 
other examples that show exactly this there were all sources of famous people who would be considered, criminal, but they might have done some mistake in their past
or they might have done something wrong, but because life chose to wait and see what happens they are on another level. So when we are talking about justice, justice
is not about what person has already done or what the person is doing so when justice is being rendered on and higher level on an entire universal level, he must also 
consider the future consequences, let's say, for example, there might be a person who asked caught murdering someone. So this guy killed someone and sometimes law becomes
blind and just because this person has killed someone that person also be hanged to death and this is where the full of justice because there might have been a very,
very important reason why that person might have killed the guy you don't know the truth. You don't know which is not possible to render judge someone rather judge 
someone from just a single sentence. There might have been a very complicated past there might that person might be a very very talented person that might person that
person what he did was wrong, killing someone is wrong, but if he do not render that punishment right now, or if we consider the punishment with a thoughtful mind
mindfully, we can create something even bigger than that that person might become the best. Most biggest world changing person ever seen in the world, and that is 
something that we must keep in mind.

It is also not enough and it's to consider justice as something that just happens right. See when some convict or some person was done some crime and that person is 
found guilty. We have two choices we could either see what has happened in the past and we can see what might happen in the future, and we can deliver justice in such 
a way that ensures, the best possible possibility for all aspects of justice or else. The other option is, we could just deliver justice on the point. That advantage 
of the former option is that when we consider the past of that criminal or that convict, what we get is an rather a story about what let them to what they did, and 
this is very important because our society is very easily susceptible to dismiss them as just me excus, or they are just giving reasons, but if those excuses of 
those reasons were true, it would reveal something even more deeper even more fundamental to the reason of the thing they have done and when we take this approach, 
we would be able to deliver justice more efficiently, because once we have knowing more things we can deliver this is better and that is because when we know more 
things we are on travelling the truth or more and more levels and when truth is present and when a higher degree of truth is present and higher degree of justice 
can be delivered hence justice must consider the past and take actions upon, and if necessary must also consider the personal circumstances and the story of the person
because that leads to higher understanding of human nature and that gives the person and second chance, but this also must not be done in the blind. This must not be
done blindly by placing a fair blind faith upon a person that person must also show some sort of willingness to change or change his ways.

The other reason why this cautious approach to justice must be taken is because that person is also has some potential. Everybody has some potential and there is
nothing like an useless human. Everybody is skilled in something or have something or something they can contribute to, however, wrong and wrong, they might have 
done. They might be useful to us as a society, even though they might have done something wrong, they could be able to improve the society and much higher level than 
the wrongs they did. And this is like that example of Robert Downey Junior because that young man had so much potential in him that man young man had a very much will
and passion to recover from his current developed state that the true justice that was done. There was to give him a second chance, and because that second chance was 
given to him, and because of that's one single second chance that was given to a person the world has an Oscar winning actor.. 

Hence, justice should not be narrow minded, but rather focus on all levels because justice is very much entangled with food and truth cannot be understood by a narrow 
mind, but only by a broad vision of all things. Justice must also have a broad view that encompasses the specific circumstances, the situations, the past the present 
and the future, and that.

And this is exactly why no should take justice of their own hands. Nobody should think that they are completely understand what they think is justice. They must not 
think they are absolutely right and they know the truth and their version of truth is the truth and truth only is absolutely universal truth. They must not think like 
that, because it's always wrong, almost always, and nobody has heavenly right to deal out justice from there. Nobody has it heavenly ability to be judging everyone else 
because you are not aware of the truth and truth is so elusive. It cannot come to your hand. it is justice is much much more bigger than human society because it is an 
ideal is an higher idea. It is something that we must be very revere to. No one single person can understand and deliver justice. It's so much bigger than that. One must
always take us breath and think to yourself before judging someone or serving out. Judgement. Justice is not about the present but is also over the past also, the future 
justice cannot only deal with the fulfilment or satisfaction of the current status of society, justice is should also consider the consequence of the justice that is 
being served.

People think justice is very much synonymous with what is right and what is wrong. This is wrong. The concept of right and wrong has evolved over the years and it is 
not one single concrete thing. Hence justice is also not one single concrete thing. This entire concept of right and wrong deserves in another essay where we talk about 
it. We try to understand and explain and grass as much as we can, and we will talk about this in another essay on my website, but justice is not what is right and row.
Justice has only one view that is the continued existence of human species and harmony does not consider with what the society currently think of as right and wrong,
and let me give you an example, why this is always true, in let's say 17th or 18th century, there was slavery people thought slavery was not wrong. At least there was 
not as much of and white spirit agitation against slavery. all those owners of those slave. All those masters would have thought it was the right thing. It was the right
thing. The slavery was right thing because it was the social custom that was how things were done in that time, so at that time you might have thought that slavery was 
right. It was the right thing to do. There's nothing wrong with it, and even the slaves, at least some of them might have excepted their light as their feet they might
have left it because that was how the world worked or society thought at that point of time it was considered to be right at that point in time, but does that mean 
slavery was right? No, it doesn't. Slavery was wrong is wrong and will be wrong in the future, but our conception of right or wrong is always very fluid and will 
change over the course of time. Not what is considered as right. We cannot feel safe for sure will be considere, right 20 years later down the line, hence right 
and wrong what you consider as a point of now is not an accurate description of justice. That is why when I say justice has to not relate with the present, but also 
the future and the past and that is very important, justice does not deal with what is right and wrong right and wrong is a human idea, but justice is an ideal. It's 
an higher idea. It's an higher idea is something that is above us.

Because we are not gods, and we cannot know absolute truth about any moment and we cannot predict what will absolutely happen in the future. We are in no way competent 
to serve justice. You can only serve interpretations of justice based on the current societal conditions, but justice is much more beyond that it deals with truth. 
It deals with all those other higher ideas that justice is beyond humans. This is why nobody should take justice to their own hands. It will always be above us. 
JIt has always been above us and it will always be above. It is always above  us.
