Purpose of life
This is a very interesting and rather important question, not because almost all the philosopher before us have tried to answer this question, but I really important question, 
but not just because of that, but because every person on this earth has tried to answer this question in some form or another over the cause of their lives and that's what makes 
this question, really important for us to figure out right?

So let us define what we think of as purpose of life. What does it mean and in perspective what it means is that over the cause of human lives what we see as the purpose of life is what
we see as some sort of think that we must do think like is it the thing that we have come on this earth taken a birth to do and that's the purpose of life and there's nothing beyond it. That's
how most people view it and but I will like to disagree with that because I feel the purpose of life is rather something else because there are a lot of things beyond the purpose of life. It's no 
purpose of life is not some sort of heavenly duty that you have to do and you have to do just that, it's it's quite different and it's definition. The proper definition will change from person proposal, 
and it's quite subjective if you think about it.

First floor, I want to make things clear. The purpose of life is not a duty is not something that you have to do, and it's not. It cannot be found by someone else. It cannot somebody can't come to you and 
say this is the purpose of life. no, it's something that you figure out after you know in the course of your lives, and it's something that means quite a lot, to you

And the reason why this is a very important question is because without the said purpose of life quite can get lost, you know without knowing what to do and and and people are always trying to find meanings and 
everything they find in life, and that also applies to their own life. They want to find meaning to their life and as far as I consider what they refusion refer to as the purpose of their life is what they actually 
referring to is the meaning of life. What is the meaning of life?

Even now, people confuse themselves between the purpose of life of meaning of life and their career, and that's a very common mistake because it's how it has been considered further past human society. It has always
been like that, but times have changed and definition of the purpose of life must also change, you see in the ancient times a persons carrier was quiet defined by what their predicate. For example, if someone's father 
was a blacksmith, it would be expected of them to also become blacksmith because that skill could come from his father and in pretty much many ways that he did not have the necessary upbringing to learn other 
schools. For example, if you wanted to become a value, the society was more in such a way that he could not gain the necessary skills. The professional skills to become a barrier. it was more easier for him 
to learn his father Street rather than do anything else, other so, and this treat this profession would be what he or she would do for the rest of their lives. Hence, people came to great the purpose of life 
and their profession. This way, but today's world is quite different in today's world. We can learn any skills any time anywhere where we have as long as you have the internet, you want to learn pottery just 
watch poco online, that's as simple as that so equating the purpose of life and carrier has become irrelevant as of today and it's much rooted in personal fulfilment today

Purpose of life is quite entangled with the concept of personal fulfilment. It's no longer what others prescribed to you in todays world. You want to become a musician and you are willing to learn those skills and 
polish. Then there's nothing pretty much stopping you other than maybe, for example, your other skills rather than the skills of the music of the trade that you're trying to learn purpose of life is something that 
you do because you want to do it, and you find joy and happiness in that and this really important

Purpose of life are those things that you could think about on your death bed and be happy that you did them. These are the things that it's not what you do because somebody has told you something that you do out 
of your personal love for doing that thing is those things that you never regret doing it was those last things that you think about those last moments, and you are happy that you did, it

The question of how to find out what is purpose of life is really important to remember that purpose of life or the meaning of life is not one concreting thing. It is really manageable and changes over the course 
of your lives. As you gain more experience is talk about people learn new things. It is quite prompt to change what you think as your purpose of life or the meaning of life, hence in your childhood or you, if you 
thought that okay, maybe I want to become a doctor and I want to help people and you work towards that as your what you're supposed to do in this life or as the purpose of life, and after sometime, you find out 
that you really like something like a gardening then it is not wrong to change your purpose of life because the purpose of life just like is the life is just a journey and like any other journey, everybody final 
destination is death. Everybody takes a different route, but the destination is saying and you don't know what places are you are going to visit tomorrow, it's always gonna be mystery. Things are bound to change 
and things are, going to happen like not what you plan, so you're what you consider as your purpose in life is really really bound to change as you move through the grand journey in your life, and it's really 
important to understand that your lives purpose or what you consider as your lives, meaning is not one single solid thing it's bound to change. It's going to be really. It's going to be really flowing and you 
gonna learn that you gonna understand as you grew up, not to grow up physically, but as you move through your life, spiritually mentally, socially and things about to change.

Your purpose in life don't have to be really grand things, and this is one thing that I understood very hard hard, and I still can't accept it. I thought you what you consider as the purpose of your life must
be grand big things that you dream of, and it's quite you know, easy or quiet common to dream big things, but there's one thing that's much more important that there is important that what you consider as the
purpose of your life is your life's purpose is not somebody else, so nobody should have any input on what you can consider the meaning of your life. It's your decis, it can be as big as making the world more 
peaceful or it can be as small as making your family happy. It does not have to be very large giant big dreams that encompass all of the universe. It is something that's really personal to you. it's not other
peoples opinions that matter when it comes to things like this, what you consider is a purpose of your life is not a reflection of who you are, but rather a reflection of what your ambitions are what you want to
do, and how willing are you to do to do those things. That's just what it is, it's not a reflection of who you are, you can have big dreams, but that's not gonna define you. You can have big things that you consider 
as a purpose of your life. It's not going to define you or you can also have really really small things like helping each other people, every single day or someone a little help a little good thing that you do,
and you can consider purpose of your life and that's not wrong, this is something contrary to what I used to believe I had a friend who thought that his purpose of his life is to make his parents happy and 
fulfil their dreams, and I used to think that that's a really small dream. Why would somebody dream like that? Why would their entire life purpose be making somebody, or the parents happy, but then he told 
me that if he could sacrifice what dreams that he had today, he would be able to allow his next generation to dream even bigger, and I thought I was confused. I did not know what to say because that's a really 
good line of thinking and that's when I understood, even it is very hard. It was very hard to digest for me, but I understood that, your purpose is life is does not have to be great if it brings person fulfil, 
and if it makes you happy, then nothing else matters. Your dreams can be as because nothing else the world as ever seen, but can also be really small things in life, your purpose in your life or what you consider
as the purpose of life is not reflection of who you are, who you are is defined by your character, the little things that you do in life like you, how you help a blind person to cross the road or that smile that 
you give to a beggar on the street or the way you talk, to a child, that is what matters at the end.

As long as you are fulfilled and feel happy doing what you like, that's all matters.

Philosophers like to complicate things, take questions and find deeper meaning in it. but the truth is the really big questions of life can be understand really rather simply by introspecting or retrospect ing
on that thing and understanding it

If you move further from philosophical or mental aspects of the meaning of life of purpose of life, we can really view this from a biological or a scientific viewpoint and understand pretty much all of 
this easily. We are nothing but few specs of atoms on the universal scale. Whether you died happily or regretting something is not gonna matter on the cosmic scale. It's only going to matter to you as a life or 
the ones around you. The reason we even exist is because of millions of years ago, some atoms interacted with each other and formed the first single cellular organisms and we are quite long long way from that we 
have evolved from that we have now intelligence we have motor skills we build buildings we go to space. We try to solve complex equations of physics, mathematics, chemistry, and of nature of fundamental questions 
of nature itself and if you take a step back and think what does a human life is actually it's just a complex arrangement of atoms and we have come all these way and the way how evolution works, which of species 
can reproduce and continue its life for the longest, the strongest wins. So and the studies have showed that whoever is much more happier or much more fulfil, they live the longest right he if we lead a happier 
and fulfilled life. It increases our lifespan and more lifespan to higher quality of life and higher quality of life equals to that our species can continue to grow faster, we can develop new things that grow 
our quality of life. We can grow as a species in terms of number and happiness, much faster. So in a sense from scientific or biological viewpoint, purpose of life, what you consider as a meaning of life is 
absolutely meaningless. It just exist to serve the purpose of continued existence of the species. The more happier you are the more fulfilled. You are, the more longer you leave and the more the species can 
continue to grow, hence from a biological standpoint, the purpose of your life is what you consider as the meaning of life is just simple. How long does the species survive question? It's not much more than that, 
and the reason why we have come to consider the question is because we want to answer the question. We just don't want to question you want to answer the question and whenever someone finds a and answer to it. 
The significantly change the phase of the human species, for example, Einstein, what we can consider as Einstein's life purpose was to question and find answers to the biggest universe mysteries. And because he 
followed what that purpose of life because he found found that was the purpose of his life with the meaning of his life, he found his work meaningful. We have profound new discovery is new theories just because 
one man found his meaning of life and that's why answering. This questions is really important because one when one person find the answer, he works to he or she works towards it, really dedicated and improves 
us as a species. 

Hence, in the end, it's really important to understand what you consider as the purpose of the meaning of life is only going to matter to you all those around you. Hence follow your dreams. Follow what you 
consider as your life. You don't have two lives to follow your dreams and another one to follow others. Dreams, you will not die for life. If you don't do what you wish to do, you have always regretted, hence 
always, follow your heart. You may fail you may fall, but in the end, you will not regret it, and that's the most important thing you must understand.
